Rental Deal of the month and post Labor Day Market Analysis
http://eepurl.com/fZAf9
09/23/2011


Labor day is now in the past which officially concludes the rental season and begins the sales season. What does this mean? If you need to move over the next few months keep in mind the following: there are less apartments available to look at yet even less people moving.  If you have a good real estate agent who knows the history of the apartment and pricing, he should be able to advise you as to how much you can negotiate. Typically, an offer of 2-5% under the asking monthly rate is reasonable. This obviously heavily depends on how the apartment is priced, the personality of the landlord, location, previous rent and several other factors a good real estate agent can help you with. I always urge potential renters to find out what the apartment rented for the previous year. This should be a very good indication of what kind of negotiating you can do. After all, you do want to get your moneys worth on that broker fee!

Thinking about Buying? 

This is the busy time of year for buying and selling. As a potential buyer, it's important to know your options. 

Buyer's Agent
A buyer's agent is a real estate agent who is representing you (the buyer) throughout the entire buying process. Lately, I've been dealing with several buyers who don't understand what the use is in a buyer's agent. Considering most, if not all of the listings are public, coupled with the listing agent's incentive to work directly with the buyer (he avoids splitting the commission with the buyer's agent), many potential buyer's are attempting this complicated, sophisticated fast-paced process on their own. 

The world of NYC real estate is possibly the most complex in the world.  I believe it is necessary to have a buyer's agent to, at the bare minimum, navigate you through the world of co-ops and condos. It is prudent that you make sure your agent is well trained and adding a lot of value to your buying experience.  It is important to know that unlike renting, where the fee is paid by the potential renter, in buying, the fee is a fixed rate paid by the seller. The fee to the seller is exactly the same regardless of the presence of a buyers agent.  A good buyer's agent will not only take a large load of the stress off buying, find you a better deal, but also put together your entire co-op/condo package for you.  This is all being done at no cost to the buyer.  That being said, it is prudent that you trust your buyer's agent considering there is no contractual obligation to either side, and a bad agent can make your life much worse than it would have been on your own.

This is an excellent article in the NYTimes with more info-  http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/18/realestate/the-buyers-broker-getting-started.html?_r=1&ref=realestate

Next time, we'll talk more in depth about condos and co-ops.

If you ever have any questions about renting, selling, buying or investing please feel free to contact me.
 
Sincerely,
Dan Bamberger
Licensed Salesperson

Citi Habitats
214 Sullivan St
NY, NY 10036
P 212-253-2525
F 917-262-77376
C 516-578-4564

Rental Deal of the Month!

W4th st. 2 bedroom, $3050/month
AWESOME two bedroom in the HEART of the west village on W4th street just west of 6th ave (above Burrito Loco).  Massive living room with north facing windows, HUGE separate eat-in kitchen, KING size bedrooms with both south, north and west facing windows.  Definitely the best two bedroom deal in the village!

Sale deal of the month! Stunning TriBeca 2 BR! Only $995,000!


Chic, Fabulous and Affordable is this two bedroom Tribeca loft with incredible light, huge windows, open views and high ceilings. Newly renovated spa-like bath, refinished hardwood floors and enormous windowed eat-in kitchen. Custom closets and built-ins throughout make storage a snap. Facing north onto quiet Warren Street, this sixth floor home is surprisingly peaceful with nice views. An incredibly well maintained pet friendly co-op with two elevators, common laundry on the third floor, private storage, bike room and live-in superintendent. 
